# _In vitro_ Validation Experiments

Within the CROssBAR project, wet-lab molecular biology experiments, centered around the topics of mechanisms and the potential treatments of the liver diseases, have been designed and carried out for selected sets of computational predictions, with the aim of validating the accuracy of the information included in the CROssBAR resource.

As a comparative analysis in relation to the COVID-19 use-case, we conducted *in vitro* cell based wet-lab experiments (i.e., gene expression analysis) to compare its results with the computationally-inferred information on CROssBAR COVID-19 knowledge graphs. We investigated the effect Chloroquine phosphate on liver cells by treating Huh7 and Mahlavu cells, and analyzed the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using the NanoString platform. We examined and discussed the intersection between the DEGs and the genes/proteins on the KGs, also between the significantly affected pathways (due to Chloroquine treatment) and the pathways presented in the KGs. For more information please refer to our CROssBAR project paper. All datasets used in this analysis can be found together with the results in the folder above entitled: "DEG_analysis_CQ_treated_liver_cells".

As a part of another CROssBAR sub-project, we conducted _in vitro_ experiments regarding the repurposing of drugs for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). As a result of DEEPScreen large-scale drug-target protein interaction prediction run, it has been disclosed that JAK proteins may be the new target proteins of Cladribine. Cytotoxicity, cell death, cell cycle analyses and flow cytometry analysis of STAT-3 phosphorylation and protein immunoblotting techniques were used to demonstrate whether Cladribine drug had an effect on this pathway in (HCC) cell lines (Huh7, Mahlavu and HepG2). For more information please refer to our DEEPScreen [article](https://pubs.rsc.org/en/content/articlelanding/2020/SC/C9SC03414E).
